Israel is stepping up its ground and air
offensive against Gaza the Israel
Defense Forces released video showing
what they say are tanks and ground
troops operating at unspecified
locations inside Gaza the military says
it has struck hundreds of militant
Targets in the recent days its soldiers
are engaged in Fierce hand-to-hand
combat including attacking Hamas gunmen
in the network of underground tunnels
beneath Gaza the IDF also claims it has
killed the senior Hamas Commander
involved in directing the October 7th
terrorist
attacks our correspondent Tanya ker is
in stot in southern Israel that's close
to the G Gaza Strip border we asked her
about reports of that Fierce fighting
deep in the Gaza
Strip well I can tell you what we are
seeing and hearing from here um we've
been here for the course of the day
there has been heavy bombardment air
strikes also toly tanks and we also uh
have seen rocket Fire coming out uh some
of it went towards Central Israel
towards uh the Tel Aviv area but also in
southern uh uh Israel we had uh some you
know the the military seems to be going
steadily more deeper inside Gaza uh step
by step so to speak uh there was a radio
address released um uh audio recording
released by the head of the Southern
command uh who is responsible here for
for the for the Gaza Strip and the area
saying that to the Troops that they will
fight in allies and in tunnels so this
was kind of a hint maybe that they're
approaching a denser urban area that
they're coming closer maybe to Gaza City
but I also have to stress we do not know
these details because um you know the
the the Army keeps the information very
tight and journalists are not in in this
area inside at the same time on the same
time we hearing uh from Hamas as well uh
the the military Wing the Kasam Brigade
saying they're engaging the the military
the Israeli military that they even
Ambush them in some area so that there
is uh fighting uh going on um so this is
on on on this side what we can see here
but we also have heard from the Israeli
military that there was an a missile
that was intercepted over the Red Sea uh
by the aerody defense system that
possibly came from uh from
Yemen now uh what do we know about the
long-term goals of the Israeli
government there to take back control of
the Gaza
Strip well basically uh we we really
don't know I mean they have not stated
what they will do um uh once this is
over they said this is going to be a
very long campaign um and uh they the
government is saying that they want to
as they put it eradicate Hamas they want
to eliminate all their C capabilities
and they will not let up you know uh the
uh ground the the offensive on Gaza and
the war on Gaza until it will destroy
Hamas so what does that mean is not
quite clear because Hamas is also of
course a political force uh also uh some
of its leaders are in other countries uh
in the region uh so there will be uh
still also be there uh so there's also
the main criticism that nobody talks
about really their ideas being floated
but nobody really talks about what is
going to be and of course the people in
Gaza are also potentially not being
asked they have been displaced now uh
what will happen to them will they be
able to go back uh most some of them
might not find their house there anymore
there's talk about the Palestinian
Authority that is uh um governing the
occupied West Bank to come back but all
these are ideas and of course for Israel
uh to stay there for a longer time to
basically administer occupy uh the the
Gaza Strip so um this is all not clear
all what we know from from the
government is that they are saying this
is a very long campaign uh what they are
envisioning our correspondent T there
thank you
Tanya dozens of people have been killed
in a blast at a refugee camp north of
Gaza City the Hamas ran Health Ministry
says an air strike killed at least 50
people at the jabalia site the densely
populated Camp is the largest in the
Gaza Strip United Nations has also
confirmed that more than 3,000 children
have now been killed in the bombardment
of Gaza food water and medical supply
still desperately short they're growing
cause for a humanitarian
ceasefire the Gins go through another
day of explosions Israeli air strikes
have been targeting the strip for weeks
they say they're hitting Hamas militants
and their infrastructure inside the
territory as the death toll mounts the
ham Mass run Health Ministry claims that
over 8 and a half thousand people have
died in Gaza since Israeli bombing began
many have lost entire
families we don't have anything nothing
he was just going out to find gas
because we don't have any at home he was
also looking for bread for the children
and gas then they told me he was
martyred
this is now a daily reality for the
people of Gaza people clawing to get
others out from under the
rubble many of those stuck are
children on Monday the UN Security
Council held an emergency meeting to
discuss the Gaza crisis with Aid
agencies focusing on the young
casualties of this war nearly 70% of
those reported killed are children and
women save the children reported
yesterday that nearly 3,200 children
were killed in Gaza in just three weeks
this surpasses the number of children
killed annually across the world's
conflict zones since
2019 this cannot be collateral damage at
least there also came this call for
children to be better protected on
behalf of all the children caught in
this nightmare we call on the World to
do better whether they are young people
attending a music festival or children
going about their daily lives in Gaza
they all deserve peace children do not
start conflicts and they are powerless
to stop them to add to the suffering
essential supplies are running
dangerously low food water fuel and
medicines are all hard to find
humanitarian workers say the aid
reaching Gaza is far too little for
residents with one UN agency in Gaza
claiming an urgencies fire is now a life
or death matter for millions of
Palestinians
the journalist hen belusa is in Gaza and
he updated us earlier on how
humanitarian Aid there is being
distributed um the distribution
mechanism is not clear to everybody um H
announced that they
are handing some some wheat to the
bakeries for um uh to make bread so may
that made the prices half um at the
bakery so people are are getting the
bread with with with a half half a prve
but still the cues are very long and and
everybody anybody want want to want to
get a back of bread needs to wait like
between two to three hours at least to
get one back um some distribution happen
in uh on schools which is uh people are
uh Sheltering there but um what other
people in in the area who are displaced
some of them they are saying at the
industry or in their cars in the streets
they are not releasing a the mechanism
is not clear people are are not aware of
the things it's it's very limited plus
the type of the the aid that comes to Da
we are talking about um um bical
supplies food and and water but still
like um there is a huge shortage of
water with washing water or drinking
water that was journalist hen Bala there
reporting from Gaza some European
countries are reportedly hoping to ship
Aid to Gaza now Hiba Tibi the country
director for care in the Palestinian
territories has bore about efforts to
ramp up a
deliveries uh thank you so much for this
great question um we are in Desperate
needs in Gaza for the humanitarian Aid
having these hopes and that are coming
in a very timely manner is is is very
important uh in two days there were
announcements on the complete collapse
of the uh fuel system in two of the
major hospitals in Gaza for instance uh
you have seen also in the news and I'm
pretty sure through the lenses of
media the situation in terms of bread uh
food uh Water Medic medical supply all
of these uh medical humanitarian
supplies are uh required in Gaza as soon
as possible in a sustainable Manner and
also um in a way that is safe for the
teams to distribute them and contribute
to saving the lives
immediately U now K has warned about the
collapsing Health Care system in Gaza
how is that affecting people
there unfortunately it's uh the
situation is really becoming more and
more dire um by the hour as as we always
say um the lack of medical supplies the
lack of fuel and electricity to operate
hospitals uh the lack of the uh medical
C in general is becoming more and more
difficult today we have he that the
medical students undergraduates are
required to also come to support
hospitals doctors are unable to deal
with this the huge numbers of wounded
people and also on the top of those who
are in need of medical treatment
including including elderly pregnant
women uh cancer patients uh babies in
incubators those who are in need of of
certain long-term Medical Services like
dialysis so the situation is becoming
more and more difficult on um by the top
of the hour if I can't even say by the
by the minute can you give us a sense of
what it's like for your colleagues on
the ground
there my colleagues now are very similar
to the rest of the people the internally
displaced people from the north to the
South most of them are living either in
the shelters or with their hosted with
their family members in very overcrowded
houses just now I received a message
from my colleagues saying that they
don't have any more any water and
unfortunately the very scarse resources
that we were able to identify in Gaza
for drinking bottled water they we they
they are they ran out of the water and
we cannot contribute or stend to them
water for for their consumption
unfortunately some of them have their
grandkids babies and or their own babies
and they are unable they are asking us
only to send water for their uh uh for
their milk to to for the babies only so
this is the situation
unfortunately now the north of Gaza has
been hit hard with air strikes um are
people still there and why are they
still there and is help getting to them
unfortunately most of the help is is
going towards either the hospitals and I
will speak about for instance care and
other NOS either through two hospitals
where they have sheltered many people
and to the UN designated shelters
unfortunately there are many people in
the north that were not able to evacuate
for different reasons on the top of
everything they could not afford uh
moving or evacuating to the South
after two or 10 after two weeks almost
in the South many of them came back so
most of those who were stried in jabalia
now came back from the south to the
north they were not able to uh uh to
continue living on the over in the
overcrowded shelters that are out of
resources now and that is is facing huge
issues with the outbreak of diseases
water born related diseases and viruses
and in the same time they could not feel
safe in the South they were under
constant Shilling so most of them came
back so the first this is the first
reason why they did not Evacuate the
second is that the biggest hospitals who
are uh providing Health Services like
dialysis there is the biggest one in the
north so you will see people staying in
the surrounding area so that they can
access these Services there are very few
people who did not leave because they
don't want to leave and these are very
very few people but but most of those
who stayed in the north either because
they were not able to leave or because
they came back from the south because
they could not bear the unbearable
conditions of living
therea there from Care thank you very
much